Well we have our camera and lights in the scene.
Now there's one more thing I want to talk about regarding lighting using the cycle's render engine the
lights for cycles are Ray lights.
And that means that they use real world scale real world measurements for their calculations about how
the light bounces around the scene.
So for your scene to look its best you really need to have the scene be real world scale.
So let's take a look and see if we're there.
I'm going to come over here to the scene panel and under here you can see we've got a unit's panel and
under the length we can change our system of unit from none which is just a blender.
Standard units or metric or the imperial system of feet and inches.
Now I'm here in the United States where the Imperial system is king as it were.
So I'm going to choose that for now.
Now if I hit the End key I can come over here and let's select say this counter-top these cabinets and
countertop.
And if we take a look at its transformations we can see that it is rotated 90 degrees in the x axis.
That's going to be problematic in terms of figuring out how big our scene is.
So what I need to do is make sure that all of these transforms are zeroed out or we have all ones in
the scale here that will help us figure out how big things should be.
So to do that I'm going to press control a and apply the rotation here.
If I click this you can see that my rotations now are all zeroes.
If we would have had anything but the ones in the scale I could have chosen rotation and scale.
All right so now let's take a look at this.
I'm going to create a cube here in another layer and scale it to the size that my cabinets need to be.
Now my cabinets need to be about 36 inches high.
I've gone out to Google and just googled what the standard height for kitchen counters are and it's
about thirty four and a half inches for this and maybe if we add the backsplash let's call it 36 inches
or three feet.
So I'm going to come over here to a new layer and I will create a cube here.
Now notice this cube is two feet by two feet.
I need it to be three feet tall.
So in the Z dimension I'll just type three and hit enter.
And now we've got three feet.
Now if I had wanted three inches I would type in three.
And then the double quotes and that would be three inches.
But let's go back to three feet.
Now if I hit my three key and five key on my number pad and my period keyed to zoom in.
Let's now move this up so it sits on the grid and we can see how tall three feet is.
So there we go all tumble around.
Hit the five key and now let's bring back the other part of the scene I'll shift click here on that
layer and we can see now that this scene is really way too big.
So what let's do is let's move this cube over here.
And let's scale our scene to fit this height.
So I'll just choose this one layer and I'll hit the A key to select everything.
Now if I scale down if I hit the esky you'll see that it scales from the center of all of the objects
and I don't want that so I'll hit escape what I want to do is scale from the center of the grid right
down here I can move the cursor to the center of the grid pressing shift s and cursor to center.
And now I can change my pivot point to the 3D cursor.
You can see that that transform gizmo moved down to the 3D cursor there.
And now as I hit s and scale it scales in there from that point.
All right so now what we can do is bring back our cube.
Yet the three key the five key I'll even hit the Z key here and it looks like my cube is still selected.
So I need to de-select that won't let me come over here and hit the A key.
Now I'll shift select that layer and everything is still selected there.
Now I just need to scale it down until the countertops are the same size as my cube.
All right.
Here we go.
Hit the s key.
Scale it down until about right there.
Move this over.
Let me move this over.
Change the median point move it over to the side just so I can see it a little bit better.
Select all of those again.
Change the cursor back to 3-D.
And I want to scale it down just a little bit more here.
Read about there yeah that will work.
So now that we've done that all of the lights in the scene are going to interact with the scene in a
more realistic way.
So let's try it.
Let's come over here to the render panel and hit the render button.
Well now there quite a difference isn't there.
And the reason why everything is a bit brighter is because everything's closer.
The illumination or the intensity of the lights is still the same.
It's just that now everything is closer to the lights.
So therefore we need to reduce the intensity of the lights.
And this is what I mean by it is reacting as if everything is real world scale.
So whereas the lighting setup looked fine when the scene was very big.
We need to do a little adjusting now that it has real world signs.
And keep in mind you can model as you go is you're creating a scene you can model each of the objects
in real world scale making sure each object in each thing is exactly the size it should be.
Or like we did here you can model your scene at any size you want.
Making sure however that everything is in proportion to everything else in the scene.
But then at the very end you can just select it all and scale it down.
So what I do is I usually model pretty big keeping everything in proportion and then simply selecting
it all scaling it down to the correct size.
Then I add the lines but I wanted to do it like this just to show you the difference that scale can
make.
So let's go back in and adjust the intensity of the lights here.
I'll just turn on the rendered viewport shading mode here.
Select one of my area lights and let's reduce the intensity here.
I'll take the strength.
Let's just take it down to one for now.
I'll do the same over here.
And for the sunlight maybe this will work out just fine let's go in and keep it at one and see how that
works.
In addition while I'm here I'm going to change the name of the light sensor to sunlight.
I will change it to Sun and down here I'll change these lights.
The name of these lights to maybe cabinet one.
And let's change this one to say cabinet to.
All right.
Now let's re render our scene and see how it looks.
Come back over here and render and then we have our render.
Not too bad.
OK.
So now that we've talked about seeing scale we can move on to the next step and begin adding our materials.